---
layout: resume
title: Resume
slug: resume
---

h1. Resume


  <div class="experience">


h2. Experience

* 13 years of practical experience hand coding HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ruby, PHP, and MySQL
* Built numerous websites using responsive design, icon fonts to support HiDPI displays, HTML5 JavaScript APIs, CSS3 transforms, and other techniques
* Developed numerous e-commerce/content management systems and custom web apps using PHP/MySQL and Ruby/RoR
* Core contributor to several open-source projects

  </div>


  <div class="skills">

h2. Qualifications

h3. Expert

* HTML5
* CSS3
* PHP/MySQL
* Sass
* KohanaPHP
* OS X and Linux
* Git and SVN
* Apache

h3. Competent &amp; Improving

* Responsive Web Design
* Ruby
* JavaScript, including jQuery and Prototype/script.aculo.us
* Sinatra
* Ruby on Rails
* Vim
* Heroku cloud platform


h3. Perpetual Interests

* Usability/accessibility best practices
* Semantic markup
* Next-generation technologies and techniques
* Typography, grid design, and color theory
* Industrial design and the history of common objects


h3. Intangibles

* Able to plainly communicate technical concepts
* Learn new concepts and technologies quickly
* Dedicated to continued learning in a wide range of disciplines

  </div>




  <div class="employment">

h2. Open-source Projects

h4. "Roughdraft.io":http://www.roughdraft.io

A micro-publishing platform backed by GitHub Gists. Written in Ruby, using Sinatra. Deployed to Heroku.

* Redis for caching content retrieved using the Github API
* Server-to-server GitHub API authentication

h4. "SassMeister.com":http://sassmeister.com

A web app for experimenting with Sass. Written in Ruby, using Sinatra. Deployed to Heroku.

* Lead developer
* Icon fonts
* GitHub OAuth
* HTML5 localStorage
* Packaged two Sass libraries as Compass extensions and published them as Ruby gems

h4. "Readmore.js":https://github.com/jedfoster/Readmore.js

A smooth, lightweight jQuery plugin for collapsing and expanding long blocks of text with “Read more” and “Close” links.

h4. "HTML5 WP Audio Player":https://github.com/jedfoster/html5-WP-audio-player

An implementation of a popular WordPress audio player for browsers that support HTML5’s @audio@ tag, with fallback to the original Flash player for browsers that don’t.

* CSS3 transitions
* Icon font
* Forked and improved an existing JavaScript library

h4. "Toadstool":https://github.com/Anotheruiguy/toadstool

Sinatra-based style guide app.

* Co-developer
* Implemented dynamic routing in Sinatra
* Created various Ruby methods

h4. "Stipe":https://github.com/Anotheruiguy/stipe

Sass library that forms the core of Toadstool.

* Co-developer
* Engineered a modular file structure
* Extracted core Sass into a Compass extension
* Created Ruby gem





    <div class="history">


h2. Employment History

h3. February 2012 - present

Software Engineer
_Getty Images_
(Under contract through _Filter Digital_ from February, 2012 to August, 2012)

* Maintained and developed marketing web pages and microsites using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, and XML.
* Assumed lead role in the maintenance of a legacy style guide framework for marketing portions of the website. The framework generates production CSS with Sass and establishes markup patterns that guide the construction of new pages. 
* Co-authored a next-generation style guide framework for a strategic Ruby on Rails initiative. Engineered the framework's modular structure, dynamic routing, and the Ruby gem that forms the core Sass library. This framework was open-sourced and became Toadstool.
* Coached co-workers on version control, HTML/CSS/JS best practices, troubleshooting, and other development techniques.
* Wrote numerous automation scripts in Ruby to manipulate the hundreds--sometimes thousands--of HTML fragment files that constitute a single marketing web page, including localized versions in more than ten languages.
* Migrated hundreds of pages of content from a legacy CMS to a new one. Wrote a Ruby script to transform XML documents into HTML fragments that could be consumed by the new CMS, as well as locate and move thousands of graphics from the old system to the new one.


h3. 2005 – Present

Self-employed, Web Designer, Frontend Developer, Software Engineer

* Designed, built, and maintained numerous websites for clients in fields such as health care, education, industrial manufacturing and sales, community services, motivational speaking, non-profit charities, beauty salons, and transportation safety.
* Wrote a custom content-management system with the KohanaPHP MVC framework.
* Developed several iterations of a custom content-management system, most of which are still in use.
* Built an e-commerce solution that has processed about $250,000 in revenue for clients.
* From 2007 through 2011 I continued working with Captive Audience as my largest client. Designed and implemented business-critical database and infrastructure solutions using FileMaker Pro Server and PHP/MySQL web applications, such as integrating an offline FileMaker database with an online ordering system using PHP/MySQL and XML, and developing a custom CRM web app that tied in with their larger FileMaker system.



h3. 1999 – 2007

Production Director, Audio Editor, Graphic Designer, IT Manager
_Captive Audience Marketing Inc._

* Designed brochures, business cards, product manuals, postcards, trade show displays, and other marketing collateral.
* Maintained all office infrastructure including computer hardware, peripherals, network, operating systems, and business software.
* Designed and implemented production workflows and order tracking systems.
* Developed online knowledge base of office procedures, product data, and IT and production protocols for internal reference.
* Provided internal training in computers, product specifications, and audio/video production.


    </div>
  </div>






notextile. <div class="print-hide">


h2. Contact Info

Email: "jed@jedfoster.com":mailto:jed@jedfoster.com
Mobile: 253.298.2868

notextile. </div>
